pyrasterframes/src/main/python/docs/raster-io.md, before:

# Raster Data I/O

The standard mechanism by which any data is brought in and out of a Spark Dataframe is the [Spark SQL DataSource][DS]. RasterFrames are compatible with existing generalized DataSources, such as Parquet, but provide specialized ones oriented around geospatial raster data.

Three types of DataSources will be introduced: 

* Catalog Readers
    - `aws-pds-l8-catalog`: experimental
    - `aws-pds-modis-catalog`: experimental
    - `geotrellis-catalog`: for enumerating [GeoTrellis layers][GTLayer]
* Raster Readers
    - `raster`: the standard reader for most operations
    - `geotiff`: a simplified reader for reading single GeoTIFF files
    - `geotrellis` (for reading [GeoTrellis layers][GTLayer])
* Raster Writers 
    - `geotrellis`: for creating [GeoTrellis layers][GTLayer]
    - `geotiff`: beta
    - `parquet`: for writing raster data in an analytics functional form  

There's also some support for vector data (for masking and data labeling):

* Vector Readers
    - `geojson`: read GeoJson files with `geometry` column aside attribute values


@@@ index
* [Raster Catalogs](raster-catalogs.md)
* [Raster Readers](raster-read.md)
* [Raster Writers](raster-write.md)
@@@


[DS]: https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/sql-data-sources.html
[GTLayer]: https://geotrellis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guide/tile-backends.html

Commit message:

Flesh out vector data support; move function ref to pymd file; clean up of getting started
Signed-off-by: Jason T. Brown <jason@astraea.earth>

pyrasterframes/src/main/python/docs/raster-io.md, after:

# Raster Data I/O

The standard mechanism by which any data is brought in and out of a Spark Dataframe is the [Spark SQL DataSource][DS]. RasterFrames provides specialized DataSources for geospatial raster data and maintains compatibility with existing general purpose DataSources, such as Parquet.

Three types of DataSources will be introduced: 

* Catalog Readers
    - `aws-pds-l8-catalog`: built-in catalog over [Landsat on AWS][Landsat]
    - `aws-pds-modis-catalog`: built-in catalog over [MODIS on AWS][MODIS]
    - `geotrellis-catalog`: for enumerating [GeoTrellis layers][GTLayer]
* Raster Readers
    - `raster`: the standard reader for most raster data
    - `geotiff`: a simplified reader for reading a single GeoTIFF file
    - `geotrellis`: for reading a [GeoTrellis layer][GTLayer])
* Raster Writers 
    - `geotrellis`: for creating a [GeoTrellis layer][GTLayer]
    - `geotiff`: beta writer to GeoTiff file
    - [`parquet`][Parquet]: general purpose writer 

There is also support for @ref:[vector data](vector-data.md) for masking and data labeling.

@@@ index
* @ref:[Raster Catalogs](raster-catalogs.md)
* @ref:[Raster Readers](raster-read.md)
* @ref:[Raster Writers](raster-write.md)
@@@


[DS]: https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/sql-data-sources.html
[GTLayer]: https://geotrellis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guide/tile-backends.html
[Parquet]: https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/sql-data-sources-parquet.html
[MODIS]: https://docs.opendata.aws/modis-pds/readme.html
[Landsat]: https://docs.opendata.aws/landsat-pds/readme.html
